# ANTLR Parser for MySQL targeting C#

## Summary
This project is a sample on how to use ANTLR4 to parse SQL (MySql) scripts. ANTLR is a tool for generating parsers.

 _*This by any intent is meant for development, but a bootstrap for any who is interested in taking it further*_. 

Creating parsers is by itself a very daunting task, additionally the code originally was created for C++, and for getting this parse working in C# it was required to adapt the C++ code. For me it was fun, but I might not have time to providing support for it, until I find a reason for doing it.

## Know Issues
* Incorrect Method named generated by ANTLR
For some odd reason ANTLR (or maybe I have missed a given setting). Whenever the ANTLR command is executed for regenrating the parser. 


## File System / Projects

The project `MySqlParser.TerminalApp` contains a sample on how to use the parser. 
It could be taken even further by implementing a custom `Visitor` based on the needs. 

The project `Workbench` holds all the classes related to the ANTLR Parser and its generation.
Please notice that under the directory `Parsers/AutoGenerated` is where autogenerated files are stored. These files can be generated by executing ANTLR command as showed in `Grammars/build-parsers.cmd`.
The MSBuild can be automated for regenrating the files on each compile for example:

```XML
<Target Name="BuildParsers" BeforeTargets="BeforeBuild">
    <Exec WorkingDirectory="./Grammars" Command="build-parsers.cmd" />
    <ItemGroup>
      <Compile Include="**/*$(DefaultLanguageSourceExtension)" Exclude="$(DefaultItemExcludes);$(DefaultExcludesInProjectFolder);$(BaseIntermediateOutputPath)**;$(BaseOutputPath)**;@(Compile)" />
    </ItemGroup>
  </Target>
```

However, It was disabled due to the known issue (but in unix-like systems, the workaround can be automated with ease by using `sed` command)